Summary:
  Advanced Identity Summary:
    Security Token Service -STS-: 
      Offers temporary credentials with restricted privileges for AWS resource access.
    Cognito: 
      Establishes a user database for both mobile and web applications.
    Directory Services: 
      Allows for the integration of Microsoft Active Directory within AWS.
    IAM Identity Center: 
      Offers a centralized login for multiple AWS accounts and applications.
  Machine Learning Summary:
    Rekognition: 
      Face detection, labeling, and celebrity recognition.
    Transcribe: 
      Converts audio to text like for subtitles.
    Polly: 
      Converts text to audio.
    Translate: 
      Provides translation services.
    Lex: 
      Builds conversational bots, like chatbots.
    Connect: 
      Amazon Connect.
      A cloud-based contact center solution. 
      Uses machine learning to enhance customer interactions and streamline support processes.
    Comprehend: 
      Natural language processing.
    SageMaker: 
      Machine learning for developers and data scientists.
    Forecast: 
      AWS Forecast.
      Uses ML to build highly accurate forecasts for metrics like: 
        Sales, inventory demand, financial planning, based on historical data.
    Kendra: 
      ML-powered search engine.
    Personalize: 
      Amazon Personalize Service.
      Provides real-time personalized recommendations for customers, such as: 
        Product or content suggestions, based on user behavior and preferences.
    Textract: 
      Detects text and data in documents.
  Further AWS Services Summary:
    Amazon WorkSpaces: Managed desktop-as-a-service solution.
    Amazon AppStream 2.0: Desktop application streaming service.
    AWS IoT Core: Easily connect IoT devices to the AWS Cloud.
    AWS AppSync: Build scalable and secure GraphQL APIs.
    AWS Amplify: Develop and deploy full stack web and mobile apps.
    AWS Application Composer: Build serverless visual workflows.
    AWS Device Farm: Test mobile apps on real devices in the cloud.
    AWS Backup: Fully managed backup service.
    Disaster Recovery Strategies: Strategies for recovering from disasters. 
      Backup and Restore, Pilot Light, Warm Standby, Multi-Site/Hot Site.
    AWS Elastic Disaster Recovery (DRS): Manage disaster recovery workflows.
    AWS DataSync: Simplify and automate data transfer between on-premises and AWS.
    AWS Application Discovery Service: Plan and track migrations to AWS.
    AWS Application Migration Service (MGN): Accelerate migration to AWS.
    AWS Step Functions: Build serverless visual workflows to orchestrate Lambda functions.
Review your knowledge
  Quiz Q&A:
    Q1:
      The question:
        A company needs to implement identity management 
        for a fleet of mobile apps that are running in the AWS Cloud.
         Which AWS service will meet this requirement?
      Options:
        Amazon Cognito. ✔️
        AWS Security Hub.
        AWS Shield.
        AWS WAF.
    Q2:
      The question:
        A company needs to manage multiple logins across AWS accounts within the same organization 
        in AWS Organizations. Which AWS service should the company use to meet this requirement?
      Options:
        Amazon VPC.
        Amazon GuardDuty.
        Amazon Cognito.
        AWS IAM Identity Center (AWS Single Sign-On). ✔️
    Q3:
      The question:
        A company is developing an application that uses multiple AWS services. 
        The application needs to use temporary, limited-privilege credentials 
        for authentication with other AWS APIs. 
        Which AWS service or feature should the company use 
        to meet these authentication requirements?
      Options:
        Amazon API Gateway.
        IAM users.
        AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS). ✔️
        IAM instance profiles.
    Q4:
      The question:
        A developer is writing a program that must switch between multiple IAM roles. 
        Which AWS services or features can the program use to meet this requirement? (Choose two.)
      Options:
        AWS CLI. ✔️
          Manara potential error ❌, choose just once and it's a correct answer.
        IAM inline policies.
        AWS Organizations.
        AWS Trusted Advisor.
    Q5:
      The question:
        Which AWS service can be used to turn text into lifelike speech?
      Options:
        Amazon Polly. ✔️
        Amazon Kendra.
        Amazon Rekognition.
        Amazon Connect.
    Q6:
      The question:
        Which AWS service provides machine learning capability 
        to detect and analyze content in images and videos?
      Options:
        Amazon Connect.
        Amazon Lightsail.
        Amazon Personalize.
        Amazon Rekognition. ✔️
    Q7:
      The question:
        A company has a social media platform 
        in which users upload and share photos with other users. 
        The company wants to identify and remove inappropriate photos.
        The company has no machine learning (ML) scientists 
        and must build this detection capability with no ML expertise. 
        Which AWS service should the company use to build this capability?
      Options:
        Amazon SageMaker.
        Amazon Lightsail.
        Amazon Personalize.
        Amazon Rekognition. ✔️
    Q8:
      The question:
        Which AWS service provides a highly accurate and easy-to-use enterprise search service 
        that is powered by machine learning (ML)?
      Options:
        Amazon Kendra. ✔️
        Amazon SageMaker.
        Amazon Augmented AI (Amazon A2I).
        Amazon Polly.
    Q9:
      The question:
        Which AWS service provides machine learning capability to 
        detect and analyze content in images and videos?
      Options:
        Amazon Connect.
        Amazon Lightsail.
        Amazon Personalize.
        Amazon Rekognition. ✔️
    Q10:
      The question:
        A company is looking for a managed machine learning (ML) service 
        that can recommend products based on a customer’s previous behaviors. 
        Which AWS service meets this requirement?
      Options:
        Amazon Personalize. ✔️
        Amazon SageMaker.
        Amazon Pinpoint.
        Amazon Comprehend.