Introduction:
  What is AWS Cloud Adoption Framework. 
    A Framework help organizations effectively transition to the cloud.
      By providing a comprehensive guidelines and best practices. 
    It assists in planning, implementing, and managing cloud adoption. 
      Across technical, business, and organizational perspectives.
AWS Cloud Adoption Framework:
  It aso called -AWS CAF-.
  Assists in creating and executing a comprehensive plan for digital transformation using AWS.
  Developed by AWS professionals. 
  It incorporates AWS best practices and insights from thousands of customers.
  It identifies key organizational capabilities essential for successful cloud transformations.
  It organizes these capabilities into six perspectives:
    Business, People, Governance, Platform, Security, and Operations.
AWS Cloud Adoption Framework
  Challenges:
    Cloud adoption requires collaboration beyond just the IT department.
    Different people from various parts of the organization should be involved in cloud adoption.
      Engaging stakeholders from different areas is crucial for success.
  Targets:
    The session will explore who these stakeholders are and how to engage them.
  Unique Cloud Journeys:
    Each organization's cloud journey is unique due to many factors like: 
      Organization type -public, private, non profit-. 
      The Legacy systems.
      Business goals.
      Risks.
  Challenges and Risks Also can vary-:
    Organizations face challenges such as doing more with less while transforming services.
    Workloads vary from mission-critical tasks to seasonal or disaster-related demands.
  Resiliency Requirements:
    Changing climate and disaster events impact service delivery and IT demands. 
      Requiring adaptable cloud solutions.
  Cloud Adoption Framework (CAF) Overview: 
    It has been developed over about ten years. 
    Integrating experiences from over 40,000 organizations across various sectors. 
    The CAF aims to simplify cloud adoption, focusing on maximizing value and minimizing risks. 
    The framework aligns cloud strategies with organizational outcomes.
  CAF Perspectives: 
    The CAF consists of six perspectives.
    Grouping stakeholder concerns when transitioning to the cloud:
      Business Perspective:
        Concerns: 
          Aligning business and IT strategies. 
            Ensure that the projects you develop meet the defined organizational outcomes. 
          Budgeting transitions from CapEx to OpEx, benefits realization, and opportunity costs.
        Focus: 
          Helping business managers understand the implications of cloud adoption. 
            On budgets and accountability.
      People Perspective:
        Concerns: 
          Career management, resource management, and training management.
        Focus: 
          Supporting staff through career transitions. 
          Forecasting staffing needs, and fostering innovation through training opportunities.
      Governance Perspective:
        Concerns: 
          Managing investments.
          Adapting to agile project management.
          Business performance management.
        Focus: 
          Prioritizing investments.
            Make strategic decisions about where to allocate resources and funding for cloud.
            Important for government entities. 
              Often have limited budgets and must ensure that taxpayer funds are used efficiently.
          Establishing KPIs for success.
            What is KPIs:
              Stands for key Performance Indicator.
              Quantifiable measure of performance over time for a specific objective.
          Effective license management in the cloud.
      Platform Perspective:
        Concerns: 
          Compute, network, storage, and database provisioning.
        Focus: 
          Managing infrastructure through processes like infrastructure as code. 
          Ensuring standards and guardrails are in place for innovation.
      Security Perspective:
        Concerns: 
          Compliance, identity management, data protection, and incident response.
        Focus: 
          Establishing security frameworks. 
            That delineate responsibilities between AWS and users for cloud security.
      Operations Perspective:
        Concerns: 
          Application support, performance management, change management.
        Focus: 
          Ensuring applications deliver on objectives.
          Utilizing auto-scaling.
          Implementing effective release management processes.
  Implementation Steps: 
    The CAF is designed not just as a theoretical framework. 
    The CAF is practical action plan to facilitate organizational transformation. 
    The implementation includes: 
      Workshops to engage stakeholders and develop tailored strategies. 
      Emphasis on iterative progress rather than a linear approach.
  Note about CAF:
    It is not AWS specific, it's more generic framework.
  Envisioning Workshop: 
    Focuses on aligning IT projects with prioritized business goals. 
    Participants including: 
      Executives and stakeholders. 
    Identify desired outcomes for example improved services. 
    Define success metrics -KPIs- to measure progress. 
    This collaboration helps ensure that IT initiatives support organizational objectives. 
      Making it easier to justify project decisions later.
  Alignment Workshop: 
    Addresses stakeholder concerns related to cloud adoption. 
      By organizing these concerns and prioritizing them.
        Action plans are created to address issues, like providing training on cloud strategies.
    It gathers input on questions and uncertainties, such as: 
      Budget impacts or understanding cloud concepts. 
  Launching Projects: 
    After establishing action plans: 
      Organizations prioritize IT projects for migration to the cloud or new app development. 
      They align these projects with the -CAF- to ensure comprehensive planning, covering: 
        Business, technology, and security aspects.
  Realizing Value: 
    Organizations measure the success of their initiatives using: 
      The defined KPIs and generate reports to demonstrate the achieved outcomes. 
Cloud Transformation Value Chain
  Technology: 
    Utilizing the cloud to: 
      Migrate and modernize legacy Infrastructure, applications, data, and analytics platforms.
  Process: 
    Digitizing, automating, and optimizing business operations. 
    Leveraging new data and analytics platforms for actionable insights. 
    Using machine learning (ML) to enhance customer service.
  Organization: 
    Re-imagining the operating model, organizing teams around products and value streams. 
    Leveraging agile methods for rapid iteration and evolution.
  Product: 
    Re-imagining the business model by: 
      Creating new value propositions -products and services- and revenue models.
  Envision: 
    Demonstrate how the cloud will accelerate business outcomes and that by:
      Identifying transformation opportunities.
      Creating a foundation for digital transformation.
  Workshop Steps:
    Envision: 
      Shows how the cloud will accelerate business outcomes. 
        By identifying transformation opportunities.
      Laying the groundwork for digital transformation.
    Align: 
      Identify capability gaps across the 6 AWS CAF Perspectives, resulting in an Action Plan.
    Launch: Build and deliver pilot initiatives in production.
    Demonstrate incremental business value.
    Scale: 
      Scale up pilot initiatives to achieve the desired business benefits. 
        While maintaining the intended scope and impact.
  See:
    ./assets/caf.png