Exam Study Strategies:
  7 Days before the exam:
    Review Key Concepts: 
      Focus on AWS core services like EC2, S3, RDS, VPC and the AWS pricing models.
    Study AWS Whitepapers: 
      Focus on the most recent AWS overview and best practices documents.
    Create Summary Notes: 
      Condense your notes into key points that are easy to review.
  1 Day before the exam:
    Light Review Only: 
      Go over your summary notes and revisit any tricky concepts
    Check Exam Logistics: 
      Verify the exam time. 
      Location or setup for online proctored exam. 
      Required IDs.
    Rest Well: 
      Ensure you get a full night’s sleep to be well-rested for the exam.
  On Exam Day:
    Arrive Early: 
      Get to the exam center early to avoid any last-minute stress.
    Read Questions Carefully: 
      Take your time to understand each question and watch out for keywords.
Types of Questions on the Exam:
  Two types:
    Multiple Choice Questions:
      These have one correct answer and three incorrect options. 
      Make sure to select only one response.
    Multiple Response Questions:
      These require you to select two or more correct answers from five or more options. 
      Note that the exam software won't indicate if you've chosen the correct number of answers.
        Though the question will specify how many to select.
    See:
      ./assets/questions-type.png
Exam Answering Tips & Tricks:
  Proceed by Elimination.
  Expect high-level pick-a-service questions for the most part.
  Eliminate obviously incorrect answers first.
  Sometimes, AWS makes up services. 
    Make sure you know all the ones we have covered so you don’t choose those!
  Choose the most sensible option from the remaining answers.
  Few trick questions; avoid overthinking.
  Complicated solutions which may work, but require a lot of work/processing are likely incorrect.
  No Penalty for Guessing: 
    There’s no negative scoring for incorrect answers.
      So it’s better to guess than to leave a question blank.
  Attempt Every Question: 
    It’s crucial to answer every question since unanswered ones are marked incorrect.
  If need be, you can flag questions so you can come back to them at a later stage.
  Flagging Questions: 
    If you’re unsure about a question and want to revisit it later, use the flag feature. 
      This allows you to easily find and review these questions once you’ve answered all others.