Introduction:
  What we will learn.
Shared Responsibility Model - EC2:
  What are AWS responsibilities: 
    Infrastructure -Global network security-.
    Isolation in the physical host.
      If you have a service with this property.
    Replacing faulty hardware.
    Compliance validation.
  What are your responsibilities:
    Security Group rules.
      Defined how can access the EC2 instances.
    Operating-system patches and updates. 
      Own the entire Virtual Machine inside your EC2 instance.
    Software and utilities installed on the EC2 instance.
    IAM Roles assigned to EC2 & IAM user access management. 
    Data security in your instance.
EC2 Instance: Security Measures:
  Security in EC2
    Security Groups are essential for network security in AWS.
    They manage inbound and outbound traffic for EC2 Instances.
    Security Groups consist solely of rules.
      Rules within Security Groups can specify permissions by: 
        IP address or by referencing other Security Groups.
  EC2 Instances: Information
    Security groups serve as a -firewall- for EC2 instances.
      Controlling inbound and outbound traffic based on specified rules.
    They regulate:
      Access to specific ports.
      Authorized IP ranges for both IPv4 and IPv6.
      Control of inbound traffic -from others to the instance-.
      Control of outbound traffic -from the instance to others-.
    Can be attached to multiple instances.
    Restricted to a specific region and VPC combination. 
      They don’t cross regions or VPCs.
      You'll need to configure them separately if using multiple regions or VPCs.
    Operates externally to the EC2 instance; blocked traffic does not reach the instance. 
      Operate outside the EC2 instance. 
      Any traffic they block is prevented from even reaching the instance.
        Thereby enhancing security.
    Advisable to maintain a separate security group specifically for SSH access.
    If your application times out and is not accessible. 
      It's likely a security group configuration issue.
    If you receive a "connection refused" error, the issue may be: 
      With the application itself.
      Instance may not have been started.
    By default, all inbound traffic is blocked.
    By default, all outbound traffic is allowed.
  Useful Ports You Should Know:
    Good information to know, but you won’t be tested on these ports during your exam!
      22: SSH -Secure Shell- used for logging into a Linux instance. 
      21: FTP -File Transfer Protocol- used for uploading files to a file share. 
      22: SFTP -Secure File Transfer Protocol- used for securely uploading files via SSH. 
      80: HTTP used for accessing unsecured websites. 
      443: HTTPS used for accessing secured websites. 
      3389: RDP -Remote Desktop Protocol- used for logging into a Windows instance.
EC2 Instance Storage: EBS Volumes, Amazon Machine Images, EC2 Image Builder, and more!
  Elastic Block Store -EBS- Volumes:
    A network drive that can be attached to instances while they run.
      It can be detached from one EC2 instance and attached to another quickly.
      At the CCP level, they can only be mounted to one instance at a time.
        Manara potential error ❌, the -At the CCP level- part. 
          because under any condition it will be attached to one instance. 
    It allows instances to persist data even after termination.
    EBS volumes are bound to a specific availability zone.
    They can be thought of as a "network USB stick."
    The free tier includes: 
      30 GB of free EBS storage of type General Purpose -SSD- or Magnetic -standard HDD- per month.
    Not a physical drive and uses the network to communicate with the instance. 
      Which may result in some latency.
  EBS Volumes:
    To move a volume across AZs, you need to create a snapshot first.
    EBS volumes have a provisioned capacity, measured in GBs and IOPS. 
      Input/Output Operations Per Second.
    Billing is based on the provisioned capacity, regardless of usage.
    The capacity of the drive can be increased over time.
  Delete on Termination Attribute:
    Determines whether an EBS volume is deleted when its EC2 instance is terminated.
      Controls the EBS behavior when an EC2 instance terminates.
    By default, the root EBS volume is deleted -attribute enabled-.
      What is the root EBS volume: 
        The primary storage volume for an EC2 instance. 
        Contains the operating system. 
        When you launch an instance, it is where the OS and system files are stored.
          Allowing the instance to boot up and run.
    By default, any other attached EBS volume is not deleted -attribute disabled-.
    This can be controlled by the AWS console / AWS CLI.
    Use case: preserve root volume when instance is terminated.
  EBS
    Create a backup -snapshot- of your EBS volume at a specific point in time.
    It's not necessary to detach the volume to take a snapshot. 
      But it's recommended for consistency.
    Snapshots can be copied across Availability Zones or Regions.
    EBS Snapshots Features:
      EBS Snapshot Archive:
        Move a Snapshot to an "archive tier" that is 75% cheaper. 
          Takes within 24 to 72 hours for restoring the archive.
      Recycle Bin for EBS Snapshots:
        Setup rules to retain deleted snapshots. 
          So you can recover them after an accidental deletion Specify retention.
            From 1 day to 1 year.
  Amazon Machine Image -AMI-
    Customization of an EC2 instance.
    Can add your own software, configuration, operating system, monitoring…
    Speedier boot / configuration time because all your software is pre-packaged.
    AMI are built for a specific region -and can be copied across regions-.
    You can launch EC2 instances from:
      A Public AMI: AWS provided.
      Your own AMI: you make and maintain them yourself.
      An AWS Marketplace AMI: an AMI someone else made -and potentially sells-.
    Start an EC2 instance and customize it according to your needs -to create your AMI-:
      Stop the instance to ensure data integrity before creating an image.
      Build an AMI -Amazon Machine Image- from the stopped instance. 
        Which will also create EBS snapshots.
      Launch new instances using the custom AMI or other available AMIs.
  EC2 Image Builder:
    AWS Image Builder is used to automate the creation of Virtual Machines or container images.
    It automates the creation, maintenance, validation, and testing of EC2 AMIs.
    Can be scheduled to run at specific intervals, such as weekly or whenever packages are updated.
    It's a free service, with charges only for the underlying resources used, like:
      EC2 Instances those used to create the AMIs and may run the build processes.
      EBS Volumes for temporary or permanent storage for the image and related files.
      Network Resources for downloading packages, updates, or dependencies during image creation.
      Other AWS Services: 
        AWS Lambda for running scripts.
        AWS CloudWatch for monitoring.
  EC2 Instance Store
    EBS volumes are network drives that offer good but "limited" performance.
    For high-performance hardware disks, use EC2 Instance Store. 
      Provides better I/O performance.
      Ephemeral -they lose their storage if the instance is stopped-.
      Suitable for buffer, cache, scratch data, or temporary content.
      There is a risk of data loss if the hardware fails.
    Managing backups and replication is your responsibility.
  EFS - Elastic File System:
    Managed NFS -network file system- that can be mounted on 100s of EC2.
    EFS works with Linux EC2 instances in multi-AZ.
    Highly available, scalable, expensive -3x gp2-, pay per use, no capacity planning.
  EFS Infrequent Access -EFS-IA-:
    Storage class optimized for cost, designed for files not accessed daily.
    Offers up to 92% lower cost compared to EFS Standard.
    EFS automatically moves files to EFS-IA based on the last access time.
    Enable EFS-IA with a Lifecycle Policy, such as: 
      Moving files not accessed for 60 days to EFS-IA.
    The transition to EFS-IA is transparent to applications accessing EFS.
  Amazon FSx: Managed File Storage
    FSx for Windows File Server:
      Managed Windows-native file system.
      Supports SMB protocol and Microsoft Active Directory.
    FSx for Lustre:
      High-performance file system for compute-intensive workloads.
      Integrates with Amazon S3 for data storage.
    Key Features:
      High performance, scalability, built-in backups.
      Integration with AWS services.
Security in EC2: Pop Quiz
  Quiz:
    Quiz Q&A:
      Q1:
        The question:
          Security groups manage ??? and ??? traffic for EC2 instances.
        Options:
          inbound, outbound ✔️
          input, output
          send, receive
          upload, download
      Q2:
        The question:
          What do security groups in AWS consist of?
        Options:
          Policies
          Rules ✔️
          Logs
          Permissions
      Q3:
        The question:
          Security groups serve as a ??? for EC2 instances.
        Options:
          Gateway
          Load balancer
          Firewall ✔️
          Proxy
      Q4:
        The question:
          By default, what is the state of inbound traffic in a new security group?
        Options:
          All inbound traffic is allowed
          All inbound traffic is blocked ✔️
          All inbound traffic is logged
          All inbound traffic is redirected
      Q5:
        The question:
          ??? refers to executing commands upon a machine's startup using User Data scripts.
        Options:
          Scaling
          Bootstrapping ✔️
          Cloning
          Snapshotting