Before the Exam:
  AWS will email you with all these details.
    But we want you to know what to do before the big day.
  Run the system test prior to your exam.
    Using the link in the Appointment Details section of this email. 
  The system test should be run even if you have previously taken an online proctored exam. 
    This is because the online proctoring software is updated regularly. 
  Be sure to run it on the same network and computer you will use on exam day.
  Review the OnVUE technical requirements drop-down menu.
    Ensuring your system is compatible with the online proctoring software.
    Link:
      https://www.pearsonvue.com/us/en/aws/onvue.html
  Review the following drop-down sections: 
    Pearson VUE policies and procedures.
    Frequently asked questions.
    The Additional policies and FAQs for AWS.
      From the following website:
        https://www.pearsonvue.com/us/en/aws/onvue.html
    These sections cover:
      How to prepare your workspace.
      What is and is not allowed on test day.
      How to access technical support.
  Note these troubleshooting tips that can resolve most issues:
    Chat with OnVUE technical support if you have an issue during or after exam check-in.
      Link:
        https://home.pearsonvue.com/onvuehelp
    Try a different computer, such as a personal computer, instead of a work computer.
    Close all applications before opening the OnVUE application, including your internet browser.
    Disable application updates.
    Disconnect from your VPN.
    Switch from Wi-Fi to a wired connection via ethernet cable.
    Do not take the exam while on a mobile hotspot.
    If testing from home.
      Have others in the household disconnect from the internet during your exam.
    Restart the OnVUE application via your downloads folder.
    Ask Pearson VUE support to resume your exam.
      If you had an issue leading to exam stop. 
    Confirm your browser and operating system meet the OnVUE technical requirements.
    Make sure you are in your exam appointment window.
      From 30 minutes before to 15 minutes after your appointment start time.
  Appointment Details Image:
    ./assets/appointment-details-image.png
Identification Guidelines
  ID Guidelines
    Please be prepared to show: 
      A valid form of unexpired, Government-issued personal ID. 
        The Government-issued ID must have your signature and must have your photo.
    The name on the registration must match the names on the Government issued ID exactly. 
    Please verify that your name listed on your confirmation email matches your identification. 
    If your identification is not considered valid.
      You will not be permitted to complete your exam and are unlikely to receive a refund.
    Examples of acceptable identification:
      Passport.
      Driver’s license.
      Identification card -national or local-.
      Registration card -such as green card, permanent resident, visa-
  By law, certain IDs must not be photocopied, digitized, or captured on camera. 
    Because of this, Pearson VUE cannot accept restricted IDs as identification for online testing.
      Restricted IDs Including but not limited to U.S. military or certain secure access IDs. 
  The first name/given name and the last name/surname must be identical to: 
    The first and last names on the valid forms of identification. 
      You are required to present at your exam appointment or you will not be permitted to test.
How to Book your AWS Certification Exam – A Step by Step Guide:
  Link:
    https://digitalcloud.training/how-to-book-your-aws-certification-exam/
Exam Rules & Regulations:
  Guidance on how to prepare for and take an AWS online proctored exam:
    Before Scheduling:
      Understand the technical requirements like computer specs, reliable internet, private space. 
      Testing rules -environmental and behavioral restrictions-.  
      Perform the System Test. 
        On the computer you'll use to ensure compatibility with OnVUE software.  
      Use a personal computer instead of a work computer to avoid firewall or network restrictions.  
    Workspace and Technical Preparation:
      Ensure your workspace is clutter-free and private.  
      Use a hardwired Ethernet connection for reliable internet.  
      If using an external monitor.
        Close the laptop and connect an external keyboard, mouse, and webcam.  
      Keep your computer plugged in during the exam.  
    Testing Rules:
      Strict isolation: 
        No other people or interruptions are allowed in the room during the exam.  
      Prohibited items: 
        Watches, books, notes, notepads, earbuds, whiteboards, and food. A beverage is allowed.  
      Use the exam browser’s Whiteboard or Comments feature. 
        For note-taking, no physical scratch paper.  
      You cannot read questions aloud, stand, or leave the workspace during the exam.
        Including for restroom breaks.  
    Exam Day Check-In Process:
      You can begin the check-in process up to 30 minutes before your exam time.  
      Close all applications except the OnVUE application during check-in.  
      Take and upload photos of your ID and testing environment using your phone or webcam. 
        Your ID must match your registered name.  
      If needed, update your name on your AWS account at least two business days before the exam. 
    During the Exam:
      Your workspace will be reviewed by a proctor, who will launch the exam after approval.  
      You will be continuously monitored through audio and video.  
    Support:
      If issues arise during check-in or the exam.
        Contact Pearson VUE’s 24/7 OnVUE support for help.