Introduction:
  What we will learn:
    Overview of Databases in the Cloud.
Overview of Databases in the Cloud
  Relational vs Non-relational Databases:
    Relational databases: 
      Store data in tables with rigid schemas -defined structure of data-. 
      Use tables, rows, and columns, with structured query language -SQL-. 
        Performing complex queries. 
      Data must be consistent across tables.
      Scale vertically -adding more resources to one server-. 
        If database server need to scale then you need to add more CPU, storage, memory..
      Examples include: 
        Amazon RDS, Oracle, and MySQL. 
      They are well-suited for complex queries and joins between multiple tables.
    Non-relational databases -NoSQL-: 
      Flexible schemas where data can be stored in various formats like: 
        key-value pairs, documents, graphs. 
      Scale horizontally -adding more servers-. 
      Examples include: 
        Amazon DynamoDB, MongoDB, and Cassandra.
      More flexible structures.
      Can store data in formats like JSON, with varying attributes across rows.
  Operational vs Analytical Databases:
    Operational databases: 
      OLTP -Online Transaction Processing-. 
      Handle transactional data in real-time, like customer orders on a website. 
      Examples: Amazon RDS -relational- and DynamoDB -non-relational-.
    Analytical databases: 
      OLAP -Online Analytical Processing-
      Source data comes from OLTP DBs.
      Aggregate data for reporting and analysis. 
      These databases are optimized for complex queries across large datasets. 
      Often using data warehouses. 
        Centralized repository that stores large volumes of structured data from different sources. 
        Optimized for analysis and reporting rather than transactional processing.
      Examples: Amazon Redshift, Amazon EMR -Hadoop-.
AWS Databases Introduction:
  Why do we need databases:
    Structuring the data.
    Building indexes so you can efficiently search through your data.
    Defining relationships between your data.
      Allowing you to hold more complex relationships with all your datasets.
    Databases are designed with specific optimizations tailored to different use cases. 
      Offering varying features, structures, and limitations.
  Difference between relational and non-relational databases:
    Relational Databases:
      Structure: Data stored in tables with rows and columns.
      Schema: Fixed schema with predefined structure.
      Relationships: Supports complex relationships using foreign keys.
      Query Language: Uses SQL.
      Examples in AWS: Amazon RDS -supports MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQL Server-.
    Non-Relational Databases:
      Structure: Data stored in various formats like key-value pairs, documents, or graphs.
      Schema: Dynamic schema allowing flexibility.
      Relationships: Does not enforce relationships; handles large volumes of unstructured data.
      Query Language: Various, depending on the DB type like MongoDB, Cassandra, etc.
      Examples: A.DynamoDB "key-value", A.DocumentDB -document-, A.Neptune -graph database-.
Databases Part 1:
  Relational Databases
    Amazon RDS:
      Managed database service employing SQL for queries.
        AWS manage the infrastructure security, patches, backups... for you.
      Enables creation of cloud databases managed by AWS.
      Supports various SQL-based databases:
        PostgreSQL.
        MySQL.
        MariaDB.
        Oracle.
        Microsoft SQL Server.
        IBM DB2.
        Aurora -AWS proprietary database-.
  Amazon RDS Deployment Options:
    Read Replicas:
      Up to 15 Read Replicas supported.
        Distributing read operations across them to reduce the load on the primary database.
      Primary database handles all writes.
      Asynchronous replication from primary.
      Enhances performance and responsiveness.
        Offloading read-heavy workloads while the primary database handles all write operations.
    Multi-AZ:
      Failover for High Availability.
        Activates during an Availability Zone outage, ensures continuous database service.
        Automatically switches to a standby database in another AZ if the primary goes down.
      Main database handles all read/write operations.
        Secondary remains inactive unless a failover is needed.
      Limited to one alternative Availability Zone for failover.
        Primary database and a single standby replica in a different AZ of the same region. 
        This setup only supports one standby database. 
          The maximum number of databases in this configuration is two -primary and standby-.
    Multi-AZ with two readable standbys: 
      Allows two read-only standby databases. 
      The primary still handles all the write operations. 
      Maximum number of standbys is 2.
        Can be a total of 3 databases:
          1 primary database that handles both read and write operations.
          2 readable standbys "read-only replicas", which can handle read operations.
        Each of the 3 is in a separate AZ of the same region.
      Providing more read capacity while maintaining high availability in the same region.
      Manara potential error ❌.
    Multi-Region -Read Replicas-:
      Disaster recovery in case of region issue.
      Local performance for global reads.
        Provides local access to data for read operations, improving performance for global apps.
      Replication cost.
      See:
        ./assets/Databases Part 1/rds-multi-az-and-multi-region.png
  Advantages of RDS compared to deploying a database on EC2:
    RDS is a managed service, offering:
      Automated provisioning and OS patching.
      Continuous backups with point-in-time restore.
      Monitoring dashboards.
      Read replicas for enhanced read performance.
      Multi-AZ setup for disaster recovery.
      Scheduled maintenance windows for upgrades.
      Scaling capabilities -vertical and horizontal-.
      Storage backed by EBS.
      SSH access to instances is not available with RDS.
  Amazon Aurora:
    Database engines offered by Amazon RDS. 
    Providing the benefits of a relational database with enhanced cloud-native performance.
    Global-scale relational database service built for the cloud.
    Full MySQL and PostgreSQL compatibility.
      Supports both PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.
    Provides: 
      Built-in security.
      Continuous backups.
      Serverless compute.
      Up to 15 read replicas.
      Automated multi-Region replication.
      Integrations with other AWS services.
    Aurora is -AWS cloud-optimized- and boasts significant performance enhancements:
      5x improvement over MySQL on RDS.
      Over 3x the performance of Postgres on RDS.
    Aurora's storage automatically scales in increments of 10GB, up to 128 TB.
      In response to actual usage.
      Eliminates the need for capacity planning and reduces management overhead.
    Automated database provisioning. 
    Pay-per-second billing offers potential cost savings.
      Suitable for irregular, sporadic, or unpredictable workloads.
    Costs 20% more than RDS and is not included in the free tier.
    See:
      ./assets/Databases Part 1/amazon-rds-aurora.png
  NoSQL Databases
    Short for non-SQL or non-relational databases. 
    Crafted for distinct data models.
    Boast adaptable schemas tailored for contemporary applications.
    Advantages:
      Flexibility: Simplified evolution of data models.
      Scalability: Designed for horizontal scaling through distributed clusters.
      High Performance: Optimization for specific data models.
      Functionality: Tailored types optimized for respective data models.
      Examples: Key-value, document, graph, in-memory, and search databases.
  JSON -JavaScript Object Notation- Overview:
    Widely used data format modeled after JavaScript object syntax.
    Fits naturally into the NoSQL database model due to its schema-less nature.
  Characteristics of JSON:
    Data can include nested structures, allowing for complex data hierarchies.
    Fields in JSON data can be added, removed, or modified over time without constraints.
    Supports a variety of data types, including arrays, strings, numbers, and boolean values.
    See:
      ./assets/Databases Part 1/json-example.png
  Amazon DynamoDB
    Automated key-value database provisioning and dynamic scaling in response to actual usage.
    Both PostgreSQL and MySQL are compatible with Aurora Serverless DB. Manara potential error ❌.
    Eliminates the need for capacity planning and reduces management overhead.
    Pay-per-second billing offers potential cost savings.
  Is a key/value database:
    A type of non-relational database, also known as NoSQL database. 
      Uses a simple key-value method to store data. 
    Stores data as a collection of key-value pairs in which a key serves as a unique identifier. 
    Both keys and values can be anything, ranging from simple objects to complex compound objects.
    Suitable for irregular, sporadic, or unpredictable workloads.
  Amazon DynamoDB Global Tables:
    Amazon DynamoDB Feature.
    Make a DynamoDB table accessible with low latency in multiple-regions.
      Allowing the creation of DynamoDB table copies in multiple AWS regions.
    Active-Active replication -read/write to any AWS Region-.
      Each copy -replica- can handle both read and write operations.
  Amazon DocumentDB:
    Fully managed and highly available, with replication across 3 Availability Zones -AZs-.
    Storage automatically grows in increments of 10GB.
    Automatically scales to handle workloads with millions of requests per second.
    MongoDB is used to store, query, and index JSON data. 
      Manara potential error ❌🔝, what's the relationship?
    Has similar -deployment concepts- as Amazon Aurora.
      Refer to the way the database is set up, scaled, and managed. 
      Amazon DocumentDB shares similar features with Amazon Aurora in terms of how it is deployed: 
        Offering high availability, automatic backups, and scaling options across different AZ. 
        Both services are managed database solutions designed for easy deployment in AWS. 
          But Amazon DocumentDB is specifically for MongoDB-compatible applications.
    MongoDB compatibility.
  Amazon ElastiCache
    Similar to how RDS provides managed relational databases.
      It provides managed in-memory caching services, specifically for Redis and Memcached. 
      It takes care of operational tasks like: 
        Setup, scaling, and maintenance. 
          Making it easier for you to use these caching technologies without a manual management.
    Caches are high-performance, low-latency in-memory databases.
    They help alleviate the load on databases for workloads with heavy read operations.
    AWS handles: 
      OS maintenance and patching.
      Optimizations.
      Setup.
      Configuration.
      Monitoring.
      Failure recovery.
      Backups
  DynamoDB Accelerator -DAX-:
    Fully managed in-memory cache for DynamoDB.
    Offers up to a 10x performance improvement. 
      Reducing latency from single-digit milliseconds to microseconds.
    Provides a secure, highly scalable, and highly available solution.
    Difference with ElastiCache at the CCP -Cloud Computing Platform- level:
      DAX is exclusively used with and integrated into DynamoDB.
      ElastiCache can be used with other databases.
Introduction to Databases Pop Quiz:
  Quiz:
    Quiz Q&A:
      Q1:
        The question:
          Databases allow for structuring data, building indexes, and defining ??? between data, 
          enabling more complex relationships.
        Options:
          Links.
          Connections.
          Relationships. ✔️
          Dependencies.
      Q2:
        The question:
          Which of the following is a key feature of relational databases?
        Options:
          Dynamic schema.
          Data stored in tables with rows and columns. ✔️
          NoSQL query language.
          Unstructured data handling.
      Q3:
        The question:
          Amazon DynamoDB is an example of a ??? database.
        Options:
          Relational.
          Non-relational. ✔️
          Graph.
          SQL.
      Q4:
        The question:
          Which AWS service is a managed database service 
          that supports various SQL-based databases such as MySQL, PostgreSQL, and Oracle?
        Options:
          Amazon DynamoDB.
          Amazon Redshift.
          Amazon RDS. ✔️
          Amazon Neptune.
      Q5:
        The question:
          In Amazon RDS, read replicas are used to ???.
        Options:
          Handle write operations.
          Distribute read queries and enhance performance. ✔️
          Provide storage backup.
          Encrypt data.