Summary:
  Pricing Models Summary
    Compute Pricing -EC2-: 
      Pay for computing power by the hour or second. 
      Options for on-demand, reserved, and spot instances.
    Storage Pricing -S3-: 
      Pay for storage space used in Amazon S3. 
      Options for different storage classes and data transfer.
    Database Pricing -RDS-: 
      Pay for database usage based on 
        DB Instance type, storage, and I/O requests.
      Options for on-demand or reserved instances.
    AWS Support Plans Pricing: 
      Choose from Basic, Developer, Business, Enterprise On-Ramp, and Enterprise Support plans. 
        With varying levels of technical support and response times.
  Account Best Practices:
    Utilize AWS Organizations: Manage multiple accounts effectively.
    Implement SCPs: Restrict account permissions using service control policies.
    AWS Control Tower: Streamline multi-account setup following best practices.
    Tagging: Utilize Tags & Cost Allocation Tags for management and billing.
    IAM Best Practices:
      Enforce Multi-Factor Authentication -MFA-.
      Adhere to least-privilege principles.
      Establish robust password policies and regular rotation.
    AWS Config: Track resource configurations and compliance over time.
    Trusted Advisor: Gain insights and tailor your support plan to meet needs.
    Logging:
      Direct Service Logs and Access Logs to S3 or CloudWatch Logs.
      Use CloudTrail to record API calls within your account.
    Security Response:
      In case of account compromise: 
        Change root password, delete and rotate all passwords/keys, contact AWS support.
    AWS Service Catalog: Enable users to create pre-defined stacks as defined by admins.
  Pricing Tools Summary:
    Pricing Calculator: Cost of services on AWS.
    Billing Dashboard: High level overview + free tier dashboard.
    Cost Allocation Tags: Tag resources to create detailed reports.
    Cost and Usage Reports: Most comprehensive billing dataset.
    Cost Explorer: View current usage -detailed- and forecast usage.
    Billing Alarms: In us-east-1 track overall and per-service billing.
    Budgets: More advanced, track usage, costs, RI, and get alerts.
    Savings Plans: Easy way to save based on long-term usage of AWS.
    Cost Anomaly Detection: Detect unusual spends using Machine Learning.
    Service Quotas: Notify you when you’re close to service quota threshold.
Review your knowledge:
  Quiz Q&A:
    Q1:
      The question:
        A company wants to review its monthly costs 
        of using Amazon EC2 and Amazon RDS for the past year. 
        Which AWS service or tool provides this information?
      Options:
        Amazon CloudWatch.
        AWS Trusted Advisor.
        Cost Explorer. ✔️
        Amazon Forecast.
    Q2:
      The question:
        A company has several departments. 
        Each department has its own AWS accounts for its applications. 
        The company wants all AWS costs on a single invoice to simplify payment, 
        but the company wants to know the costs that each department is incurring. 
        Which AWS tool or feature will provide this functionality?
      Options:
        Savings Plans.
        AWS Cost and Usage Reports.
        Consolidated billing. ✔️
        AWS Budgets.
    Q3:
      The question:
        A company needs to generate reports that can break down cloud costs by product,
        by company-defined tags, and by hour, day, and month. 
        Which AWS tool should the company use to meet these requirements?
      Options:
        AWS Budgets reports.
        Reserved Instance utilization and coverage reports.
        Savings Plans utilization reports.
        AWS Cost and Usage Reports. ✔️
    Q4:
      The question:
        A company is moving multiple applications to a single AWS account. 
        The company wants to monitor the AWS Cloud costs incurred by each application. 
        What can the company do to meet this requirement?
      Options:
        Set budgets in Cost Explorer.
        Set up invoiced billing.
        Use AWS Artifact.
        Create cost allocation tags. ✔️
    Q5:
      The question:
        A company wants to 
        forecast future costs and usage of AWS resources based on past consumption.
        Which AWS service or tool will provide this forecast?
      Options:
        AWS Pricing Calculator.
        AWS Cost and Usage Report.
        Amazon Forecast.
        Cost Explorer. ✔️
    Q6:
      The question:
        A company needs to label its AWS resources 
        so that the company can categorize and track costs.
        What should the company do to meet this requirement?
      Options:
        Use AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM).
        Use cost allocation tags. ✔️
        Use AWS Organizations.
        Use the AWS Cost Management coverage report.
    Q7:
      The question:
        How does consolidated billing help reduce costs 
        for a company that has multiple AWS accounts?
      Options:
        It aggregates usage across accounts so that 
          the company can reach volume discount thresholds sooner. ✔️
        It offers an additional 5% discount on purchases of All Upfront Reserved Instances.
        It provides a simplified billing invoice that 
          the company can process more quickly than a standard invoice.
        It gives AWS resellers the ability to bill their customers for usage.
    Q8:
      The question:
        A company has set up its IT infrastructure in the AWS Cloud. 
        The company wants to receive detailed reports that break down AWS costs by the hour.
        The reports must be placed in an Amazon S3 bucket. 
        Which AWS tool will meet these requirements?
      Options:
        AWS Cost and Usage Reports. ✔️
        AWS Pricing Calculator.
        Cost Explorer.
        AWS Budgets.
    Q9:
      The question:
        Which AWS service or feature can a company use to 
        estimate AWS costs before provisioning workloads?
      Options:
        AWS Pricing Calculator. ✔️
        AWS Cost and Usage Report.
        Cost Explorer.
        AWS Budgets.
    Q10:
      The question:
        A company has multiple departments. 
        The company must charge each department for its exact AWS Cloud usage, 
        including data transfer costs. 
        How can the company determine these costs by department?
      Options:
        Use one AWS account for each department.
        Use cost allocation tags on services that are used the most often. ✔️
        Use AWS Trusted Advisor.
        Use Savings Plans.
      Manara potential error ❌.
        If you only tag services that are -used the most often-: 
          You might miss costs from smaller or sporadically used services. 
            So you will not have the -exact AWS Cloud usage-.
        I believe the first answer is the correct, since:
          It ensures a complete and accurate breakdown of costs at the account level.
          It's more complex when having multiple account but this is not a concern in the question.