Advanced Identity in AWS:
  AWS STS -Security Token Service-:
    Creates temporary, limited-privilege security credentials for users and applications.
    Credentials are short-term and configured with an expiration period.
    Temporary Credentials include an Access Key ID, a Secret Access Key, and a Session Token.
    Limited Privileges:
      The permissions are tied to specific policies. 
      Ensuring users or applications only have access to what they need for a specific task.
    Use cases include: 
      Identity federation.
        Enable users authenticated via external identity providers to access AWS resources.
          Temporarily. 
        External identity providers like SAML or OpenID. 
        Avoid creating IAM users for each federated user.
      IAM Roles for Cross/Same Account:
        Assume an IAM role in the same or another AWS account to perform specific actions, such as: 
          Deploying resources in a shared account.
      EC2 Access:
        Assign an IAM role to an EC2 instance, allowing apps running on the instance to: 
          Request temporary credentials for accessing AWS services securely.
  Amazon Cognito:
    Manages user identity for web and mobile applications, potentially for millions of users.
    Instead of creating IAM users, you create users in Cognito.
    Cognito user And IAM user:
      Both solve different problems. 
      Cognito can replace the need for IAM users in application-level use cases. 
      This ensures better scalability, security, and adherence to AWS best practices.
    Example of Relationship Between Cognito Users and IAM:
      Scenario:
        A photo-sharing app allows users to upload images to an S3 bucket.
      Without Cognito:
        You may need to create an IAM user for each app user and manage keys/permissions manually.
          Which is insecure and hard to scale.
      With Cognito:
        App users register in Cognito -Cognito user pool-.
        Once authenticated.
          Cognito assigns temporary AWS credentials via an IAM role configured for the app.
        These credentials allow users to interact securely with the S3 bucket, for example: 
          Uploading images without needing IAM users.
  Microsoft Active Directory -AD-.
    Active Directory Domain Services -AD DS- found on any Windows Server with AD DS installed.
    It serves as a database of objects such as: 
      User accounts, computers, printers, file shares, and security groups.
    AD DS enables centralized security management. 
      Allowing you to create accounts and assign permissions.
  AWS Directory Services:
    AWS Managed Microsoft AD:
      Create your own AD in AWS. 
      Manage users locally -AWS-. 
      Supports MFA.
        When a user tries to access AWS resources or services.
      Establish trust connections with your on-premise AD.
    AD Connector:
      A proxy/gateway that connects AWS resources to your existing on-premise Active Directory.
      Directory Gateway -proxy- to redirect to on-premise AD. 
      Users are managed entirely within the on-premise AD.
      Supports MFA for additional security.
        When a user tries to access AWS resources or services.
      Does not store data in AWS, it redirects authentication and queries to your on-premises AD.
    Simple AD:
      AD-compatible managed directory on AWS, cannot be joined with on-premise AD.
  AWS IAM Identity Center:
    Formerly called AWS Single Sign-On -SSO-.
    AWS Service.
    Simplifies managing and authenticating users across multiple AWS accounts and applications.
    Provides one login for all your AWS accounts in AWS Organizations.
    Also offers SSO for business cloud applications like Salesforce, Box, and Microsoft 365.
      The user can use the same credentials to access the business cloud applications.
    SAML 2.0-enabled applications are supported for single sign-on.
      If your organization uses other identity management systems that are compatible with SAML.
        Those can be integrated into the SSO setup for easier authentication.
      all supported apps, like AWS services and third-party business cloud apps, etc...
        Can authenticate the user using the same SSO credentials.
    You can use AWS SSO for logging into EC2 Windows Instances.
    Identity Providers supported by AWS IAM Identity Center:
      The built-in identity store: 
        Allows managing users directly within AWS.
      Active Directory -AD-: 
        Can be integrated with existing Active Directory setups for managing user identities.
      OneLogin and Okta: 
        Third-party identity management solutions that can be integrated. 
          To enable SSO -Single Sign-On- for AWS services and other applications.
  What is the business cloud applications:
    Software tools and services that are hosted in the cloud. 
    Designed to help organizations manage their business operations.
Advanced Identity in AWS
  Quiz Q&A:
    Q1:
      The question:
        AWS STS creates ??? credentials that are configured with an expiration period.
      Options:
        permanent, full-access.
        temporary, full-access.
        temporary, limited-privilege. ✔️
        long-term, limited-privilege.
    Q2:
      The question:
        Instead of creating IAM users, 
        you create users in ??? when managing user identity for web and mobile applications.
      Options:
        Amazon Cognito. ✔️
        Amazon EC2.
        AWS Lambda.
    Q3:
      The question:
        AWS Single Sign-On (SSO) provides one login for all your AWS accounts in ???.
      Options:
        AWS S3.
        AWS EC2.
        AWS Organizations. ✔️
    Q4:
      The question:
        What is AD Connector used for?
      Options:
        Storing application data.
        Creating a local directory on premises.
        Redirecting to on-premise AD. ✔️
    Q5:
      The question:
        Which of the following services supports SAML 2.0-enabled applications for single sign-on?
      Options:
        AWS CloudFormation.
        AWS SSO. ✔️
        Amazon S3.