Summary  
  Deploying and Managing Infrastructure
    AWS CodeCommit: 
      A managed source control service that hosts secure Git-based repositories. 
        Making it easier for teams to collaborate on code.
    AWS CodeBuild: 
      A fully managed continuous integration service.
      Compiles source code, runs tests, and produces software packages ready for deployment.
    AWS CodePipeline: 
      Automates the build, test, and deploy phases of your release process. 
        Every time there is a code change, based on the release model you define.
    AWS CodeArtifact: 
      A managed artifact repository service.
      Makes it easy for organizations to store, share, and manage software packages.
    AWS Cloud9: 
      A cloud-based integrated development environment -IDE-. 
      Lets you write, run, and debug your code with just a browser.
    AWS Systems Manager: 
      Offers visibility and control of your infrastructure on AWS. 
      Enabling resource management and operational insights.
    SSM Parameter Store -part of AWS Systems Manager-: 
      Provides secure, hierarchical storage. 
        Configuration data management - management of configuration data- and secrets management.
      Allowing you to keep passwords, database strings, and license codes securely.
  AWS Global Infrastructure:
    Route53: 
      AWS DNS service for routing traffic efficiently.
    CloudFront: 
      AWS content delivery network for fast and secure content delivery.
    S3 Transfer Acceleration: 
      Speeds up file transfers to Amazon S3 using optimized network paths.
    AWS Global Accelerator: 
      Improves global application availability and performance. 
        By routing traffic over AWS's global network.
    AWS Outposts: 
      Brings AWS infrastructure and services to on-premises environments. 
        For hybrid cloud deployments.
    AWS Wavelength: 
      Deploys AWS infrastructure at the edge of 5G networks. 
        For ultra-low latency applications.
    AWS Local Zones: 
      Extension of AWS infrastructure.
        To deliver low-latency services in metropolitan areas.
    Global Applications Architecture: 
      Design and implementation of distributed apps across multiple regions. 
        For high availability and performance.
  Other Compute Services Summary:
    Docker: 
      Container technology used to run applications.
    ECS -Elastic Container Service-: 
      Allows running Docker containers on EC2 instances.
    Fargate:
      Enables running Docker containers without provisioning the infrastructure.
      Offers a serverless approach, eliminating the need for EC2 instances.
    ECR -Elastic Container Registry-: 
      A private repository for Docker images.
    Batch: 
      Executes batch jobs on AWS using managed EC2 instances.
    Lightsail: 
      Provides predictable and low pricing for simple application and database stacks.
  Lambda Summary:
    Lambda:
      Serverless, Function as a Service -FaaS- platform.
      Seamless scaling and reactive execution.
    Lambda Billing:
      Based on execution time multiplied by the RAM provisioned.
      Charged per number of invocations.
    Language Support:
      Supports many programming languages, excluding arbitrary Docker containers.
        Cannot bring a containerized environment or runtime that isn't supported by the service. 
        You're limited to the predefined runtimes or options provided by the service.
    Invocation Time:
      Functions can run for up to 15 minutes.
    Use Cases:
      Creating thumbnails for images uploaded to S3.
      Running serverless cron jobs.
      API Gateway:
        Can expose Lambda functions as HTTP APIs.
Review your knowledge:
  Quiz Q&A:
    Q1:
      The question:
        Which AWS service is a highly available and scalable DNS web service?
      Options:
        Amazon VPC.
        Amazon CloudFront.
        Amazon Route 53. ✔️
    Q2:
      The question:
        A company is planning to run a global marketing application in the AWS Cloud. 
        The application will feature videos that can be viewed by users. 
        The company must ensure that all users can view these videos with low latency. 
        Which AWS service should the company use to meet this requirement?
      Options:
        AWS Auto Scaling.
        Amazon Kinesis Video Streams.
        Elastic Load Balancing.
        Amazon CloudFront. ✔️
    Q3:
      The question:
        Which AWS services make use of global edge locations?
      Options:
        AWS Fargate.
        Amazon CloudFront.
        AWS Global Accelerator.
        Amazon CloudFront and AWS Global Accelerator. ✔️
    Q4:
      The question:
        A company wants to migrate a critical application to AWS. 
        The application has a short runtime.
        The application is invoked by changes in data or by shifts in system state. 
        The company needs a compute solution that 
        maximizes operational efficiency and minimizes the cost of running the application. 
        Which AWS solution should the company use to meet these requirements?
      Options:
        Amazon EC2 On-Demand Instances.
        AWS Lambda. ✔️
        Amazon EC2 Reserved Instances.
        Amazon EC2 Spot Instances.
    Q5:
      The question:
        A company is migrating its public website to AWS. 
        The company wants to host the domain name for the website on AWS. 
        Which AWS service should the company use to meet this requirement?
      Options:
        AWS Lambda.
        Amazon Route 53. ✔️
        Amazon CloudFront.
        AWS Direct Connect.
    Q6:
      The question:
        A company wants the ability to quickly upload its applications to the AWS Cloud
        without needing to provision underlying resources. 
        Which AWS service will meet these requirements?
      Options:
        AWS CloudFormation.
        AWS Elastic Beanstalk. ✔️
        AWS CodeDeploy.
        AWS CodeCommit.
    Q7:
      The question:
        A company needs to install an application in a Docker container. 
        Which AWS service eliminates the need to provision and manage the container hosts?
      Options:
        AWS Fargate. ✔️
        Amazon FSx for Windows File Server.
        Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS). ❌ Manara potetial error.
        Amazon EC2.
    Q8:
      The question:
        A developer wants to deploy an application on a container-based service. 
        The service must automatically provision and manage the backend instances. 
        The service must provision only the necessary resources. 
        Which AWS service will meet these requirements?
      Options:
        Amazon EC2.
        Amazon Lightsail.
        Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS).
        AWS Fargate. ✔️
    Q9:
      The question:
        A company has multiple applications and is now building a new multi-tier application. 
        The company will host the new application on Amazon EC2 instances. 
        The company wants the network routing and traffic between the various applications 
        to follow the security principle of least privilege. 
        Which AWS service or feature should the company use to enforce this principle?
      Options:
        Security groups. ✔️
        AWS Shield.
        AWS Global Accelerator.
        AWS Direct Connect gateway.
    Q10:
      The question:
        A company is developing a distributed application that includes a 
        decoupling component between the microservices to handle large, unpredictable workloads.
        They need a service that allows them to send, store, and receive messages 
        between software components without losing messages. 
        Which AWS service should the company use to meet these requirements?
      Options:
        Amazon SNS (Simple Notification Service).
        Amazon SQS (Simple Queue Service). ✔️
        Amazon Kinesis.