Summary
  EBS Volumes: 
    Network drives attached to one EC2 instance at a time.
    Mapped to an Availability Zone.
    Can use EBS Snapshots for backups or transferring EBS volumes across AZs.
  AMI -Amazon Machine Image-: 
    Creates ready-to-use EC2 instances with customizations.
  EC2 Image Builder: 
    Automatically builds, tests, and distributes AMIs.
  EC2 Instance Store:
    High-performance hardware disk attached to an EC2 instance.
    Data is lost if the instance is stopped or terminated.
  EFS -Elastic File System-:
    Allows multiple EC2 instances to access the same file system simultaneously.
    Network file system that can be attached to hundreds of instances in a region.
      It's a region-specific. 
      Can be accessed by Amazon EC2 instances within that same region. 
    It can be configured to be accessible across multiple AZ within that region. 
      Providing high availability and durability.
  EFS-IA -EFS Infrequent Access-:
    Cost-optimized storage class for infrequently accessed files.
  FSx for Windows:
    Network file system for Windows servers.
  FSx for Lustre:
    High-performance computing Linux file system.
Recap Exam
  Quiz:
    Quiz Q&A:
      Q1:
        The question:
          Which of the following Amazon EC2 pricing models allow customers to 
          use existing server-bound software licenses?
        Options:
          Spot Instances.
          Reserved Instances.
          Dedicated Hosts. ✔️
          On-Demand Instances.
      Q2:
        The question:
          Which of the following is the customer's responsibility 
          under the AWS shared responsibility model?
        Options:
          Patching underlying infrastructure.
          Physical security.
          Patching Amazon EC2 instances. ✔️
          Patching network infrastructure.
      Q3:
        The question:
          What is the primary benefit of using Amazon EC2 Spot Instances?
        Options:
          They provide guaranteed availability and performance.
          They offer the lowest cost for EC2 instances. ✔️
          They come with reserved capacity, ensuring resources are always available.
          They provide enhanced security features compared to other instance types.
      Q4:
        The question:
          A company requires an isolated environment within AWS for security purposes. 
          Which action can be taken to accomplish this?
        Options:
          Create a separate Availability Zone to host the resources.
          Create a separate VPC to host the resources. ✔️
          Create a placement group to host the resources.
          Create an AWS Direct Connect connection between the company and AWS.
      Q5:
        The question:
          How does Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling enhance application availability?
        Options:
          By automatically provisioning additional EC2 instances based on demand. ✔️
          By automatically scaling down EC2 instances during periods of low demand.
          By providing built-in load balancing capabilities for EC2 instances.
          By automatically updating the operating.
      Q6:
        The question:
          Which AWS managed service can be used to 
          distribute traffic between one or more Amazon EC2 instances?          
        Options:
          NAT gateway.
          Elastic Load Balancing. ✔️
          Amazon Athena.
          AWS PrivateLink.
      Q7:
        The question:
          Which AWS services or features 
          provide disaster recovery solutions for Amazon EC2 instances?
        Options:
          Reserved Instances. 
          EC2 Amazon Machine Images -AMIs-.
          Amazon Elastic Block Store Amazon -Amazon EBS- snapshots.
          B&C. ✔️
      Q8:
        The question:
          A company wants to ensure that two Amazon EC2 instances are in separate data centers 
          with minimal communication latency between the data centers. 
          How can the company meet this requirement?
        Options:
          Place the EC2 instances in two separate AWS Regions connected with a VPC peering connection.
          Place the EC2 instances in two separate Availability Zones within the same AWS Region. ✔️
          Place one EC2 instance on premises and the other in an AWS Region. 
            Then connect them by using an AWS VPN connection.
          Place both EC2 instances in a placement group for dedicated bandwidth.
      Q9:
        The question:
          A company needs an Amazon EC2 instance for a rightsized database server 
          that must run constantly for 1 year.
          Which EC2 instance purchasing option will meet these requirements MOST cost-effectively?
        Options:
          Standard Reserved Instance. ✔️
          Convertible Reserved Instance. 
          On-Demand Instance. 
          Spot Instance.
  Questions I got wrong and why:
    Q7:
      I din't know that AMIs allow you to create backups of your EC2 instances.
        Which can be used to launch new instances in case of failure.
    Q8:
      I think that: 
        Make the 2 in different AZ may cause latency.
        It's better to be in the same placement group.
      But:
        While placement groups can provide low-latency communication between instances. 
          They do not guarantee that instances will be in separate data centers. 
          As they typically reside in the same Availability Zone.
        This option allows for minimal communication latency. 
          Since Availability Zones are designed to be close to each other within the same region. 
          While still providing fault tolerance and redundancy.